hi everyone today we're going to be
talking about something very very
specific and I'm going to be talking
about the relationship between the
reluctor wheel which is this right here
and the crank sensor and the cam sensor
are their angle position sensors
whatever you want to call them the crank
in the cam whatever what happens to
these things a lot of times a lot of
people are not aware of this but once
they change the timing belt on one they
may notice that it runs good and it all
sudden it just stops I don't like why
this my car stop I got a brand new
timing belt bla bla bla bla bla bla
well one of the first things to check is
this right here which is the reluctor
wheel and how this is designed this
thing just just rides on the crank wheel
and the cam shaft and rides on the crank
I'm in on the cam the end of the camel
and how it works is this see there's a
little magnet in here see a little
magnet so every time the wheel turns
around it passes through there and it
causes a current to come on and come off
and you notice there's a little tiny
mark on it see it well the computer is
able to isolate the position of the
crank and/or the cam there before it
knows the cars and time well if one of
these little rollers brake and this
thing slips a little bit instead of it
being in time the computer is going to
completely shut the car down and think
that nothing's in time that's because
this sensor right here is what tells the
gas to cut on it tells the fuel
injectors to fire it tells the coils to
fire it tells these two sensors there's
tons of information the car gets from
these two sensors that tells it to
operate so if one slips game over and
it's the exact same wheel for the camp
I'm a bet it'd be the exact but you know
what I mean it operates exactly the same
the cam has one and it's right here let
me show it's located right where my
fingers pointing
you could if you took that cam off you
would see it and that's where the cam
sensor goes okay that's where it's
located and where the crank sensor is
located is right down here see the two
screw holes and it would just sit in
there it would be the it would just be
sitting right there on the back now
you're going to get all kinds of stories
about this you're going to get ones and
people say well you only need the seven
dollar piece and of course those people
don't know about the back trim ring you
definitely need that and they also don't
understand what happens to these you see
this right here these guys right here
are broke off which means you can't
actually use this wheel anymore hang on
one second let me grab up grab something
to try to pull that out with maybe I can
show you a little boy yeah it's moving
okay here we go all right so let's see
if I can actually get this thing go see
it well there was one it don't matter
any good anymore but if you took the
time and you could actually get these
rollers out of here which I had no
problem with the first one but the
second one oh well not going to waste
too much time on it but you get the
picture now once this wheel is beat up
like this okay forget that one for a
second once the wheels beat up here's
the problem you see inside the sensor
it's only got so much of a clearance and
so it's going to start beating it and
beating it and beating it it's going to
break this sensor now you're down 150
bucks so I would definitely spend I
think it's $40 and you get the whole
package I'll give you the part number if
you would like
here it is this is the finished product
the brand-new product you see the little
ring on the back they used to clamp it
on there
the blades are completely straight
everything is good and is that a deal or
only this is a deal our only part I mean
you can get them off eBay but like I
said every can dealerships going to
stock these because they already know
that this is a screw up design so
they're going to be doing it stocking it
and here you go there's your part number
right there hold on we're not getting
that with the lighting you can just
screen save it something hang on there
we go
there we go give you something to pause
there if you want to write down any of
this information but anyway it's like
$40 whatever 35 bucks and the other
thing that's key component about this
thing that's really hard to understand
these things can if they're off by even
just the slightest bit it will
absolutely demolish the crank sensor or
the cam it will demolish it and then
your car will go room will not start
your dime game over so anyway I just
want to go ahead and do a little video
on this because you know it's got a
little bit of mystery behind it a lot of
people don't understand how the crank
sensor it's such a you know taboo thing
and the cam sensor such a taboo thing
and you know especially on these cars
you look it up and I mean Dan they're
anywhere from a thousand of two thousand
dollars to do it for you and truth of
the matter is anybody can do it for
themselves but if you've done it for
yourself I just want to make sure that
you just take the extra forty dollars to
take it to the next level therefore you
know as an individual you're working on
your car you've got that extra peace of
mind that hey my reluctor wheel they
might call the crank angle sensor wheel
whatever they're calling it I've got
peace of mind I know it's good I know my
car can run good now
I don't got to worry about it coming
apart all right now I'm going to resume
back to doing my timing belt job on this
I have two of them I have an overview
and of course the one I'm producing
right now that this is actually going to
be an insert of is how to do it step by
step so if you have any questions please
look at one or the other if you look at
the overview is too much don't worry
about the step by step it's going to be
way too much anyway guys just having fun
with you subscribe anything to do to
help you give me a call peace